DOCS-8058 - SAP S/4HANA OData cloud connector 2.1.0 (#757)
mulesoft/docs-connectors: modules/ROOT/pages/sap/sap-s4hana-cloud-connector-studio.adoc

= Use Studio to Configure SAP S/4HANA OData Cloud Connector - Mule 4
ifndef::env-site,env-github[]
include::_attributes.adoc[]
endif::[]

> Studio editors help you design and update your Mule applications, properties, and configuration files.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Anypoint Studio editors help you design and update your Mule applications, properties, and configuration files.
```

To add and configure a connector in Studio:

. Create a Mule project.

> . Add the connector to your Mule project

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. Add the connector to your Mule project.
```

. Configure an input source for the connector's flow.

> . Configure global elements for the connector.

Reviewer: Question:
Are we primarily describing CONFIGURING GLOBAL ELEMENTS
or are we also calling these global elements GLOBAL CONFIGURATION ELEMENTS?
One is a verb and the other is an adjective and I'm unclear about what we are actually naming the elements themselves: global elements or global configuration elements.

If you are new to configuring Anypoint Connectors in Studio, see xref:introduction/intro-config-use-studio.adoc[Use Studio to Configure a Connector].

== Create a Mule Project

> In Anypoint Studio, create a new Mule project in which to add and configure the connector. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In Anypoint Studio, create a new Mule project in which to add and configure the connector:
```

> . In Anypoint Studio, from the main menu, select *File > New > Mule Project*.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. From the Studio main menu, select *File > New > Mule Project*.
```

> . Enter a name for your Mule project, and click *Finish*.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. Enter a name for your Mule project and click *Finish*.
```

== Add the Connector to Your Project

> Add SAP S/4HANA Odata Cloud Connector to a Mule project to automatically populate the XML code with the connector's namespace and schema location, as well as to add the required dependencies to the project's pom.xml file.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Add Anypoint Connector for SAP S/4HANA OData Cloud to a Mule project to automatically populate the project's XML code with the connector's namespace and schema location, as well as to add the required dependencies to the project's `pom.xml` file.
```

. In the *Mule Palette* view, click *(X) Search in Exchange*.

> . In *Add Dependencies to Project*, type `SAP S/4HANA OData` in the search field.

Reviewer: Is input case sensitive?

> . Click the SAP S/4HANA OData Cloud connector name in *Available modules*.

Reviewer: name nec?
```suggestion
. Click the connector name in *Available modules*.
```

. Click *Add*.
. Click *Finish*.

Adding a connector to a Mule project in Studio does not make that connector available to other projects in your Studio workspace.

== Configure an Input Source

> An input source initiates a flow when a specified condition is met. The act of dragging the connector's operation from the palette onto the Anypoint Studio canvas automatically populates the XML code with the connector namespace and schema location. 

Reviewer: I know I have read this a million times, but I have a better background now and can pay closer attention to some things that I glazed over before.
So... "the act of dragging": when does this happen? The audience has just added the connector to the project added to Studio using UI controls, but we haven't mentioned dragging the operation onto the canvas.
Is this supposed to be a single-step task, and this dragging is the step?
Or is dragging the same as adding?
It's a bit confusing, because we have already said that adding the connector "automatically populates...," and we have already added the connector in the previous task.

Reviewer: Oh, now I see that dragging comes at the end of this topic. Hmm. So the only step of this task is at the end. Maybe we should rethink that.
I suggest this:

"Select and Configure an Input Source"
"An input source (operation?) initiates a flow when a specified condition is met. This connector recognizes two input source operations:
...Listener
...Scheduler
To select and configure an operation:
. In Studio, drag...to the....
. Supply the required parameters, such as...

Possible input source operations for this connector are: 

* HTTP Listener +

> Starts your app using a browser or a command such as `curl`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Starts your app using a browser or a command such as `curl`
```

* Scheduler +

> Starts your app at timed intervals.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Starts your app at timed intervals
```

In Studio, drag the input operation you choose from the *Mule Palette* to the *Source* panel in the canvas, and supply the required parameters.

> 

Reviewer: "supply the required parameters" might require further descriptions...since it is actually the single step of configuring the source, right?

> == Global Configuration Elements

Reviewer: Global Element Configuration?
See question at the top: are we configuring global elements or are we describing global configuration elements?

> To use SAP S/4HANA OData Cloud Connector in a Mule app, you can configure a global SAP S/4HANA configuration element for use by SAP S/4HANA OData Cloud Connector operations in your application.

Reviewer: My reasons for this suggestion are described below it.
```suggestion
To use SAP S/4HANA OData Cloud Connector in a Mule app, configure a connector global element for connector operations to use in your application.
```

> You can put placeholder values in the `mule-artifact.content` configuration file in the `src/main/resources` folder of your project.

Reviewer: How are these placeholder values related to global configuration elements?
Not sure how this paragraph relates to the previous.

You can either enter your credentials in the global configuration content or 
reference a configuration file that contains the values for your credentials. 

> Using a configuration file is recommended for simpler maintenance and better reuse of your project. Keeping these values in a separate file is useful if you need to deploy to different environments, such as production, development, and QA, where access credentials might differ.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Although using a configuration file simplifies maintenance and increases project reuse, keeping your access credentials in a separate file is useful if you need to deploy to multiple environments that require different credentials.
```

Reviewer: OK, just copyediting now. I got carried away.

=== Configure a Global Element

> Use the Global Element Properties configuration dialog to configure a global element for SAP S/4HANA OData Cloud Connector:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Use the *Global Element Properties* configuration dialog to configure a global element for SAP S/4HANA OData Cloud Connector:
```

. In your project, click the *Global Elements* tab at the base of the canvas.

> . In the *Global Configuration Elements* screen, click *Create*:

Reviewer: Is the UI is mislabeled, changing "global elements" to Global Configuration Elements...or are global configuration elements just one type of global element?

Reviewer: Sorry.
Back to copyediting....

+
image::sap/sap-hana-global-config-wizard.png[]
+
. In the *Choose Global Type* wizard, expand *Connector Configuration*, select *SAP S 4HANA Config*, and click *OK*.
. Configure the following values in the *General* tab:

> .. In the *Connection* drop-down, select the connection type:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
.. In the *Connection* drop-down menu, select the connection type:
```

Reviewer: At some point, I would like to explore with you ways to avoid the nesting required by these substeps with subbullets....

  * *Basic authentication* +
  For basic authentication, provide the following required values:

>   ** Service Base URL +

Reviewer: Shouldn't these subbullet items be bold as well, as UI elements?
```suggestion
  ** *Service Base URL* +
```
If so, apply to each one below; I'll not mark each one.

  Enter the URL of the SAP S/4HANA instance you want to manage.
  ** Username +

>   Enter the user name used to initialize the session.

Reviewer: Also GLOBAL, because the intro to the subbullets contains the verb "enter" already, omit "Enter" from all of the descriptions and change them to plain noun fragments:
```suggestion
  The user name used to initialize the session
```
GLOBALLY remove "Enter" and the period; I won't mark all the rest below.

  ** Password +
  Enter the password used to authenticate the user.

>   * *OAuth 2 Application Connection Provider* +

Reviewer: ditto edits to peer list item above and its subbullets below

  For OAuth 2.0 authentication, enter the following required information:
  ** Service base URL +
  Enter the base URL of the service provider of the SAP S/4HANA system to access from the connector. All other endpoints are derived from this base URL.
  ** Client ID +
  Enter the OAuth client ID that is registered with the service provider.
  ** Client secret +
  Enter the OAuth client secret that corresponds to the client ID and is registered with the service provider.
  ** Token URL +
  Enter Token URL that corresponds to the URL of the endpoint which provides the access tokens.

> .. Enter the required information for the selected connection type, and click *OK*.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
.. Enter the required information for the selected connection type and click *OK*.
```

.. Click *Test Connection* to ensure that your access credentials are correct.

> . Click the *Advanced* tab inside the Connection section to configure the following values:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. Click the *Advanced* tab inside the *Connection* section to configure the following values:
```

+
[%header,cols="30s,70a"]
|===
|Studio Field |Description
|Discovery Service Enabled |Feature switch for service discovery. If disabled, the service discovery relative path is not applied.

> |Discovery Service Path | Relative path from the base URL to the service to use for automatic services discovery.

Reviewer: Does it matter if the description begins with an extra space or not?

> |Service directory |Common HTTP directory for all SAP services. You can leave this parameter blank, and specify the HTTP directory individually for every service in the unlisted services list.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
|Service directory |Common HTTP directory for all SAP services. You can leave this parameter blank and then specify the HTTP directory individually for every service in the unlisted services list.
```

|Unlisted services |List of services to add to the list of discovered services.
|Service discovery resolution timeout | Connection timeout for service discovery.
|Service discovery timeout unit | Time unit to use in the service discovery resolution timeout configuration.
|Default headers |Custom headers that can be included in each request sent.

> |Default query parameter |Custom query parameters to include in each request sent.

Reviewer: "that can be included" or "to include"?

|TLS configuration |TLS configuration.
|Proxy configuration |Configuration for executing requests through a proxy.
|===
+
. Click the *Advanced* tab in the configuration window to configure the following values:
+
[%header,cols="30s,70a"]
|===
|Studio Field |Description

> |Time zone |The timezone with which the Date objects returned from S/4Hana will be converted.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
|Time zone |The time zone to which the Date objects returned from S/4Hana are converted.
```

> |Batch buffer size |Defines the maximum memory the connector will use to keep batch requests in memory. If more than that is consumed it will start to buffer the content on disk.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
|Batch buffer size |The maximum memory the connector can use to keep batch requests in memory. Any requests requiring additional memory are buffered on disk.
```

> |Buffer unit | The unit in which Batch buffer size parameter is expressed.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
|Buffer unit | The unit of measure in which the batch buffer size parameter is expressed.
```
